# CPU Share

> --cpu-shares: Set this flag to a value greater or less than the default of 1024 to increase or reduce the container's weight, and give it access to a greater or lesser proportion of the host machine's CPU cycles.
This is only enforced when CPU cycles are constrained. When plenty of CPU cycles are available, all containers use as much CPU as they need. In that way, this is a soft limit. --cpu-shares does not prevent containers from being scheduled in swarm mode.
It prioritizes container CPU resources for the available CPU cycles. It does not guarantee or reserve any specific CPU access.

The plan: run 3 containers providing them with 100, 500 and 1000 CPU-shares.

The following is a terrible test. Carefully read above descriptions again, then read the next 3 commands and see if you can determine why this will not clearly show those CPU proportions allocated correctly.

Please note these CPU tests assume you are running this on your own computer and not on a shared development server. 3 tests hog 100% CPU for 20 seconds.

Later in this tutorial series we will do these tests using our own bench container using actual Linux benchmark tools. We will specifically focus on running these CPU hogs for very short runtimes and still get accurate results.

However please read and follow these CPU tests so that you can learn to get a feeling of how wrong and slow this quick hack testing is.

Note that dd, urandom and md5sum are not bench tools either.

The problem is not the dd or its timing.

Our CPU stress application: time dd if=/dev/urandom bs=1M count=2 | md5sum

Benchmark explanation:

- time ... measures elapsed time: shows those 3 timer lines
- dd if=/dev/urandom bs=1M count=2 ... copies bs=blocksize one MB of randomness twice
- md5sum ... calculates md5 security hashes ( give cpu a load )

Let's run it and investigate the results:
```sh
docker container run -d --cpu-shares=1024 --name mycpu1024 alpine:3.8 /bin/sh -c 'time dd if=/dev/urandom bs=1M count=100 | md5sum'
docker container run -d --cpu-shares=500 --name mycpu500 alpine:3.8 /bin/sh -c 'time dd if=/dev/urandom bs=1M count=100 | md5sum'
docker container run -d --cpu-shares=100 --name mycpu100 alpine:3.8 /bin/sh -c 'time dd if=/dev/urandom bs=1M count=100 | md5sum' 
```

Let's investigate the logs to determine runtimes:
```sh
docker logs mycpu1024
docker logs mycpu500
docker logs mycpu100
```
Expected output :
```sh
docker logs mycpu1024
real    0m 15.29s
user    0m 0.00s
sys     0m 14.51s

docker logs mycpu500
real    0m 18.65s
user    0m 0.00s
sys     0m 15.28s

docker logs mycpu100
real    0m 23.28s
user    0m 0.00s
sys     0m 13.09s
```

Note all containers used about the same sys cpu time - understandable since they all did the exact same work.

--cpu-shares=100 clearly takes longer, but --cpu-shares=500 only slightly slower than --cpu-shares=1024

The problem is that --cpu-shares=1024 runs very fast, then exits.

Then --cpu-shares=500 and --cpu-shares=100 has full access to CPU.

Then --cpu-shares=500 finishes quickly since it has most CPU shares.

Then --cpu-shares=100 finishes quickly since it has most CPU shares - NOTHING else is running.

Clean up containers:
```sh
docker container prune -f 
```

### --cpu-shares Identically Allocated
> --cpu-shares: Set this flag to increase or reduce the container's weight, and give it access to a greater or lesser proportion of the host machine's CPU cycles.

This means that equal CPU-shares setting would mean equal CPU shares.

Let's have 3 containers running, all with CPU-shares = 1024.
```sh
docker container run -d --cpu-shares=1024 --name mycpu1024a alpine:3.8 /bin/sh -c 'time dd if=/dev/urandom bs=1M count=100 | md5sum'
docker container run -d --cpu-shares=1024 --name mycpu1024b alpine:3.8 /bin/sh -c 'time dd if=/dev/urandom bs=1M count=100 | md5sum'
docker container run -d --cpu-shares=1024 --name mycpu1024c alpine:3.8 /bin/sh -c 'time dd if=/dev/urandom bs=1M count=100 | md5sum'
```

Just to confirm that they all ran the same elapsed times
```sh
docker logs mycpu1024a
docker logs mycpu1024b
docker logs mycpu1024c
```
Expected output :
```sh
docker logs mycpu1024a
real    0m 21.25s
user    0m 0.00s
sys     0m 14.72s

docker logs mycpu1024b
real    0m 22.53s
user    0m 0.00s
sys     0m 15.21s

docker logs mycpu1024c
real    0m 21.45s
user    0m 0.00s
sys     0m 15.09s
```
Prune containers, we are done with them.
```sh
docker container prune -f 
```

### --cpu-shares Proportional to Other Containers
In this test, CPU-shares are proportional to other containers. The 1024 default value has no intrinsic meaning.

If all containers have CPU-shares = 4 they all equally share CPU times.

This is identical to all containers have CPU-shares = 1024 they all equally share CPU times.

Run:
```sh
docker container run -d --cpu-shares=4 --name mycpu1024a alpine:3.8 /bin/sh -c 'time dd if=/dev/urandom bs=1M count=100 | md5sum'
docker container run -d --cpu-shares=4 --name mycpu1024b alpine:3.8 /bin/sh -c 'time dd if=/dev/urandom bs=1M count=100 | md5sum'
docker container run -d --cpu-shares=4 --name mycpu1024c alpine:3.8 /bin/sh -c 'time dd if=/dev/urandom bs=1M count=100 | md5sum'
```

Investigate logs:
```sh
docker logs mycpu1024a
docker logs mycpu1024b
docker logs mycpu1024c
```
They still all ran the same time. They did not run 4/1024 slower.

Prune containers, we are done with them.
```sh
docker container prune -f 
```

### --cpu-shares: Only Enforced When CPU Cycles Are Constrained
cpu-shares are only enforced when CPU cycles are constrained
With no other containers running defining CPU-shares for one container is meaningless.

```sh
docker container run -d --cpu-shares=4 --name mycpu1024a alpine:3.8 /bin/sh -c 'time dd if=/dev/urandom bs=1M count=100 | md5sum'

docker logs mycpu1024a
```

Exspected output:
```sh
real    0m 12.67s
user    0m 0.00s
sys     0m 12.27s
```
Now increase shares to 4000 and rerun - see - zero difference in runtime.

One single container is using all available CPU time: no sharing needed.
```sh
docker container run -d --cpu-shares=4000 --name mycpu1024a alpine:3.8 /bin/sh -c 'time dd if=/dev/urandom bs=1M count=100 | md5sum'
```
Prune this one container, we are done with it.
```sh
docker container prune -f 
```