# Memory Limitation

> -m or --memory: The maximum amount of memory the container can use. If you set this option, the minimum allowed value is 4m (4 megabyte).
> --memory-swap: The amount of memory this container is allowed to swap to disk.

### ––memory and --memory-swap (No Swapping Allowed)

If --memory-swap is set to the same value as --memory, and --memory is set to a positive integer, the container does not have access to swap.

We are now testing no swapping allowed.
We need a tool to carefully allocate RAM on a MB-by-MB basis - so that we can carefully just overstep our defined RAM limits. I decided on Python. ( You do not need to know Python to understand its 4 lines of code used here. )

Download Python Docker image if you do not already have it:
```sh
$ docker pull python:3-alpine 
```
Run our container, limiting RAM: --memory=20m --memory-swap=20m
```sh
$ docker container run -d --memory=20m --memory-swap=20m --name myPython python:3-alpine sleep 3600
```
```sh
$ docker exec -it myPython /bin/sh        
```
At the shell prompt, enter python3 to enter interactive Python editor. Cut and paste the code below. In Python spaces has syntax meaning, so be careful not to add any spaces or tabs to the code.
```python
longstring = []
for x in range(17):
    len(longstring)
    longstring.append('1' * 10**6)
```
Press ENTER to exit the for statement block. This will run the code.
```sh
>>> for x in range(17):
...     len(longstring)
...     longstring.append('1' * 10**6)
...
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
Killed
```
We allocated 20 MB RAM to this container. Python uses 5 MB. The for loop gets killed when it tries to append 16 MB of '1' characters to the longstring variable.

Three things of note:
- RAM allocations within limit of 20 MB worked
- RAM allocation that exceeded limit got killed
- No swap used: allocations did not quietly continue to work by using swap

Summary: --memory and --memory-swap ( No swapping allowed ) works when both are set to the same value. Based on your knowledge of the applications running in your containers you should set those values appropriately.

We are finished with this container. You can stop and prune it.
```sh
$ docker container stop myPython
$ docker container prune -f 
```

### ––memory and --memory-swap (Swapping Allowed)
By specifying --memory=20m and --memory-swap=30m we allow 10 MB of swap.

Let's see how that works:
```sh
$ docker container run -d --memory=20m --memory-swap=30m --name myPython python:3-alpine sleep 3600
$ docker exec -it myPython /bin/sh             
```
At the shell prompt, enter python3 to enter interactive Python editor. 
```sh
/ # python3
Python 3.9.1 (default, Feb  4 2021, 01:29:51) 
[GCC 10.2.1 20201203] on linux
Type "help", "copyright", "credits" or "license" for more information.
>>>
```
Cut and paste one by one code below including the tab character then enter. In Python spaces has syntax meaning, so be careful not to add any spaces or tabs to the code.
```python
longstring = []
for x in range(25): 
    len(longstring) 
    longstring.append('1' * 10**6)
```
Press ENTER to exit the for statement block. This will run the code.

Expected output :
```sh
0 to 25 shown ... no killing
```
4 MB RAM used by Python. 26 MB RAM allocated above with no errors.
We specified : --memory=20m --memory-swap=30m. We just used 30 MB, meaning 10 MB is swapped

Let's carefully try to use 2 MB more RAM - container should run out of RAM.
Cut and paste one by one code below including the tab character. Press ENTER to run.
```python
longstring = []
for x in range(27): 
    len(longstring) 
    longstring.append('1' * 10**6)
```
Expected output :
```sh
...
25
26
27
Killed
```
We are finished with this container. You can stop and prune it.
```sh
docker container stop myPython
docker container prune -f 
```
Summary: --memory and --memory-swap ( swapping allowed ) works when --memory-swap is larger than --memory.

Limits enforced perfectly. You need to specify appropriate limits for your containers in your production environment. Investigate current prod system RAM usage. Define limits according to those, adding a large margin for error, but still preventing runaway containers from crashing the prod server.